•  Cognizant Case Study

Global Information Provider  
Reinvents Itself
Migration to Web-based, interactive environment unlocks 
new revenue streams across key sectors.

As  a  leading  provider  of  information,  a  company 
serves  more  than  30  million  scientists,  students 
information  professionals 
and  health  and 
worldwide.  With  roots 
in  book  and 
journal 
publishing going back more than 100 years, much 
of  the  company’s  operational  data  resided  on  a 
mainframe. By 2008, the company’s management 
determined  it  was  critical  to  modernize  its  tech-
nological  backbone  to  enable  faster  cycle  times 
and improved efficiency.

The  company  collaborated  with  us  to  develop 
a  series  of  new  products  and  thus  open  up  a 
business  model  with  potential  new  revenue 
streams  that  would  better  leverage  its  informa-
tion  assets,  globally.  The  company  succeeded  in 
reducing both costs and cycle times, and will now 
continue  to  virtualize  its  workforce  and  content 
development process for greater efficiency.

Eliminating the Cost of  
Mainframe Support
In  2008,  the  company  initially  enlisted  our  help 
to  manage  the  IT  operations  for  its  technology 
business  unit.  The  premise:  Rely  on  our  global 
scale  and  expertise  to  reduce  heavy  mainframe 
maintenance  costs  and  free  additional  resources 
for  its  core  information  business.  The  company 
was  spending  a  large  sum  of  money  monthly  to 

maintain  the  data  on  its  mainframes.  A  systems 
migration onto a MarkLogic database running on 
a  Linux  server would  eliminate  costly mainframe 
support  while  easing  data  access  across  the 
company’s global locations.

The  company  also  had  in  its  sights  improve-
ments  to  the  reliability,  availability  and  perfor-
mance  of  its  systems.  The  company  wanted  to 
improve  application  downtime  and  usability  of 
its  mainstream  products;  it  looked  to  us  to  help  
resolve these challenges.

Short-term  objectives  for  the  five-year,  multi- 
million  dollar  engagement:  reduce  develop-
ment  and  support  costs,  improve  development 
and  maintenance,  reduce  the  application  per-
formance-related  problems  and  speed  time  to 
market.

In  parallel  to  the  migration  off  the  mainframe 
system,  our  team  also  took  on  development  of 
a  new  product  suite.  Initially,  this  suite  would 
contain  Web-based  versions  of  legacy  products 
the  company  had  gained  in  recent  corporate 
acquisitions.  Since  information  is  the  company’s 
area of expertise, the five products that made up 
the  suite  each  covered  a  specific  discipline.  Our 
team used an Agile development methodology to 
increase flexibility and timeliness.

cognizant case study | january 2012

For  example,  the  first  product  we  developed  for 
this company was an application  for scientists  to 
search  for  and  discover  sources  of  funding  for 
their  latest  projects,  facilitat-
ing  communication  between 
the  researchers  and  funding 
institutions.  Other  applica-
include  a  database 
tions 
with  extensive 
information 
about  hazardous  materials, 
a  database  of  ongoing  scien-
tific  research  projects,  a  data 
repository  for  university  offi-
cials,  and  finally,  a  description 
of  how  to  compose  particular 
chemical compounds.

The first product 
we developed for 
this company was 
an application for 
scientists to search 
for and discover 
sources of funding 
for their latest 
projects, facilitating 
communication 
between the 
researchers and 
funding institutions.

The  new  product  suite  was 
very  crucial 
in  maintain-
ing  the  leadership  status  for 
our  client.  The  company  also 
decided  to  open  the  data  for 
its  products  to  the  global 
developer  community  to  build 
upon.  Developers  can  create  widgets  that  go  on 
top of each product, enriching its value to users.

For  example,  an  add-on  to  a  database  product 
might  include  the  ability  to  search  on  different 
data  sets  in  addition  to  the  company’s  native 
data  so  the  end  user  can  obtain  a  more  com-
prehensive  and  up-to-date  view.  The  fees  from 
developers  presented  a new  revenue  stream  and 
business model  for  the  company. And  it  now  has 
an application marketplace for its scientific infor-
mation product set. The end result: The company 
is making more effective use of its global content 

thanks  to 
its  new  systems  capabilities  and 
business model.

The  company  has  seen  a  significant  produc-
tivity 
improvement  and  corresponding  cost 
reduction  year  on  year.  Also,  the migration  from 
mainframe  to  the  MarkLogic  system  has  greatly 
speeded  access  to  information,  both  internally 
and  externally.  It  used  to  take  24  hours  for  a 
new  document  to  be  posted  to  the  Web  from 
the  company’s  system.  Now,  it  takes  four  hours 
for  the  document  to  become  available  –  a  major 
improvement  in  an  industry  in  which  there  is  a 
premium on having the latest information.

What’s Next
Over  the  next  18  months  to  two  years,  company 
goals  for  the  engagement  include  increased  use 
of the global delivery model, continuous improve-
ments  in  application  quality  and  performance, 
identification  of 
in 
innovation  opportunities 
product  and  technology  and  increased  breadth 
and depth of the application portfolio.

The  company  plans  to  continue  virtualizing 
processes,  rationalizing  people  and  systems 
resources and reusing content. As part of a broad 
initiative  to  operate  more  effectively,  it  plans  to 
leverage cloud and consolidate servers to reduce 
cost.  It  expects  to  expand  its  use  of  managed 
services, 
leveraging  global  talent.  Though 
it 
has  been  a  leader  in  its  field  for  decades  longer 
than  most  of  its  competitors  have  existed,  the 
company  is committed  to continually  reinventing 
how  it  does  business  to  take  advantage  of  new 
opportunities,  content  and  talent, wherever  they 
reside, with speed and efficiency.

About Cognizant
Cognizant  (NASDAQ:  CTSH)  is  a  leading  provider  of  information  technology,  consulting,  and  business  process  out-
sourcing  services,  dedicated  to  helping  the  world’s  leading  companies  build  stronger  businesses.  Headquartered  in 
Teaneck, New Jersey (U.S.), Cognizant combines a passion for client satisfaction, technology innovation, deep industry 
and business process expertise, and a global, collaborative workforce that embodies the future of work. With over 50 
delivery centers worldwide and approximately 130,000 employees as of September 30, 2011, Cognizant is a member of 
the NASDAQ-100, the S&P 500, the Forbes Global 2000, and the Fortune 500 and is ranked among the top performing 
and fastest growing companies in the world. Visit us online at www.cognizant.com or follow us on Twitter: Cognizant.

World Headquarters
500 Frank W. Burr Blvd.
Teaneck, NJ 07666 USA
Phone: +1 201 801 0233
Fax: +1 201 801 0243
Toll Free: +1 888 937 3277
Email: inquiry@cognizant.com

European Headquarters
1 Kingdom Street
Paddington Central
London W2 6BD
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7297 7600
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7121 0102
Email: infouk@cognizant.com

India Operations Headquarters
#5/535, Old Mahabalipuram Road
Okkiyam Pettai, Thoraipakkam
Chennai, 600 096 India
Phone: +91 (0) 44 4209 6000
Fax: +91 (0) 44 4209 6060
Email: inquiryindia@cognizant.com

  © Copyright 2012, Cognizant. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the express written permission from Cognizant. The information contained herein is 
subject to change without notice. All other trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

