Legal Information Publisher Boosts Customer Centricity 

Business Situation
Facing increased competition and under pressure to  retain  market  share,  our  client  —  one  of  the largest legal information publishers and workflow solutions providers  in Australia and New Zealand — wanted to develop a customer-centric approach for retaining customers and finding new ones. 

Challenge
The  publisher’s  core  publishing  systems,  which were  used  by  close  to  150  internal  editors  and spread  across  four  geographies,  were  outdated and  needed  migration  or  transformation.  There was  also  the  threat  of  competition  from  open content sources focused on the small and boutique law firm market.

The  publisher  also  has  a  very  strong  relationship  with  government  information  sources  and is  known  as  the  most  comprehensive  research services  provider.  Eighty  percent  of  its  revenues are driven by research and content solutions.

Solution
To respond to the publisher’s issues, we deployed our  proven  global  delivery  model  for  development  and  support.  Key  highlights  of  the  system 
include:
• Phased,  compressed  knowledge  transfer  to reduce  dependence  on  SMEs leaving  the company.

Knowledge  transfer  for 33 applications across two  major  functional  areas:  Shared  Service and Practice Management. This was completed in  2.5  months  between  onsite  and  offshore teams.

Ownership of complete IT support for editorial applications and technical support.

Use of offshore resources for product development/enhancement for practice management.

Management of resourcing and project management.

Development of  innovation and best practices for delivering consistent value.

Knowledge management and domain roadmap for deeper client insight.


Inadequate documentation.

Evolving requirements.

Mitigation  of  challenges  on  operational  and functional resources:

Technical and environmental challenges.

Interaction  with  different  stakeholders  in multiple  geographies,  including  the  U.S., the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand.


Benefits 
Benefits of the solution include the following: 
• Center  of  excellence  created  to  fit  varying requirements across solution lines. 

Knowledge Transfer Sessions

Application Value Management (14.8 FTE)
• Additional applications undertaken 
Staff Augmentation (5.4 FTE)
• Development for new releases and  ongoing support Application Development
• 4 projects delivered; 2 strategic   initiatives

Application Value Management (14 FTE)
• Movement toward enhancements added into releases; focus on innovation.
Staff Augmentation (5.4 FTE)
• Release of new product version and enhancements Application Development
• Inclusion in strategic projects with ongoing pipeline discussions
Will be starting a project on mobility (iPad) in the 4th quarter


Consistently  high  service  levels  across  all support and enhancement activities.

Greater cost benefit due to reduction of onsite/offshore  resource  mechanism,  resulting  from high efficiency and maturity of workforce. 

Automation  of  processes,  leading  to  a  further reduction in  offshore  FTE  and, in  turn, increased productivity.


Innovation  roadmap  setup,  leading  to  greater benefits  and  enhancements.  Nearly  100  ideas generated  and  18  ideas  implemented,  worth $75K (AUD).

Investments  made  in  content  specialization and mobile initiatives.

Flexible  scaling  of  resources  in  accordance with business need.

