•  Cognizant Case Study

Transforming a Telecom Service Provider’s 
Test Environment for Maximum  
Responsiveness and Efficiency

Business Situation 
Developing a next-generation CRM system requires 
next-generation  test  environment  management 
support (TEMS). That was what one  large  interna-
tional  telecom  service  provider  required  to  equip 
several European offices for competitive success.

Having worked with us on previous service support 
initiatives,  the  company  recognized  our  proven 
expertise in Siebel CRM technology. Its then current 
Siebel environment presented challenges, and the 
client  needed  a  number  of  updated  applications 
and  a  quick  deployment.    The  company  turned  to 
us for help. 

Challenge
Our  client’s  scope  of  work  challenged  us  to  
focus on:
• 

Reducing manual processes through standard-
ization/automation. 
Extending support coverage.
Ensuring  high  availability  of  development/
testing environments.
Providing 
seamless  coordination  among 
developers, testers and vendors/partners.
Effectively  managing  emergency  requests 
during  off  business  hours,  including  critical 
patching, package deployment, hot fixes, etc.

• 
• 

• 

• 

testing  and  environment  management  services, 
with  minimum  disruption  to  daily  business 
activities in a rapid and robust fashion by following 
best practices for change management.  

Solution
Working  closely  with  our  client’s  IT  services 
department,  we  implemented  a  TEMS  transfor-
mation  roadmap  by  applying  a  combination  of 
consulting  and  managed  services,  from  initial 
portfolio  analysis  and  planning  to  ongoing  opera-
tional  support. A  real-time project dashboard was 
provided to support day-to-day tracking of project 
milestones  and  metrics,  while  an 
integrated 
delivery model synthesized  the efforts of multiple 
project teams. In total, our transformation roadmap 
addressed the following:
• 

Environment  monitoring  and  management 
(hardware,  networking,  systems  software  and 
applications).
Infrastructure monitoring  (servers, databases, 
mainframes, etc.).
Service request management (issue resolution 
and coordination).
Release  management  (systematic  updates, 
terminations and reports).
New  environment  setup  (service  on-boarding 
and built-out).

• 

• 

• 

• 

Our  client  services  team  responded  with  an 
end-to-end  solution  that  supported  development, 

Within  three  months,  we  had  transferred  the 
knowledge base  to  the appropriate  infrastructure, 

cognizant case study | july 2011

transitioned core process responsibilities to virtual 
locations  and  began  optimizing  operations  in 
real-time, with help-desk support available around-
the-clock.

Extended coverage supported all phases of instal-
lation  and  deployment,  including  configuration, 
migration  and  troubleshooting  through  envi-
ronment  management.  In  addition,  we  created 
multiple  user  tools  and  scripts  to  automate 
the  process,  reducing  manual  intervention  and 
process  errors.  Using  a  single  point-of-contact 
for  all  requirements  and  queries,  our  TEMS 
engagement  effectively  addressed  our  client’s 
key  business  challenges  and  delivered  a  solution 
that far exceeded expectations.

Benefits
The cost benefit of implementing our TEMS trans-
formation  roadmap  provided  our  client  a  value 
greater than expected on several counts.
• 

Health  check  automation  reduced  manual 
efforts by 70%.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Siebel Diagnostic Tool reduced incident tickets 
by nearly 20%.

ADM Framework improved efficiency and error 
handling by 40%.

Application server installation reduced manual 
efforts by 50%.

Extended support coverage provided:
 >

24x7 environment management.

Siebel 8.x
Informatica Power Center
Oracle App Server
Oracle Business Intelligence
Glassfish App Server
Oracle Fusion Middleware & MQ Series
IBM AIX 6.1 / Sun Solaris
SJS Portal Server & Directory Server
SVN 1.4 administration
Fuzzy Server

Tools and Technologies
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Our  “tools  agnostic”  framework  allowed 
us  to  leverage  the  client’s  existing  assets, 
lowering  its  total  cost  of  ownership  in  a 
final solution.

 >

 >

13x5  installation,  deployment,  configura-
tion,  migration  and  troubleshooting  assis-
tance.

16x5  test  and  development  environment 
support.

Providing  excellent  team  leadership,  clear  docu-
mentation  and  proven,  step-by-step  process 
mapping,  our  team  helped  this  telecommunica-
tions  service  provider  accelerate  its  payback, 
reduce service interruptions and improve quality of 
service in a next-generation CRM roll-out achieved 
in record time.  

Start Today
At  a  time  when  companies  are  relentlessly  pushing  to  compete  better,  move  faster  and  fight  harder, 
Cognizant  is  the  global  technology  partner  with  a  single-minded  passion:  Dedicating  our  systems 
expertise, industry intelligence, and global resources to make your business stronger.

About Cognizant
Cognizant  (NASDAQ:  CTSH)  is  a  leading  provider  of  information  technology,  consulting,  and  business  process  out-
sourcing  services,  dedicated  to  helping  the  world’s  leading  companies  build  stronger  businesses.  Headquartered  in 
Teaneck, New Jersey (U.S.), Cognizant combines a passion for client satisfaction, technology innovation, deep industry 
and business process expertise, and a global, collaborative workforce that embodies the future of work. With over 50 
delivery centers worldwide and approximately  111,000 employees as of March 31, 2011, Cognizant  is a member of  the 
NASDAQ-100, the S&P 500, the Forbes Global 2000, and the Fortune 500 and is ranked among the top performing and 
fastest growing companies in the world. Visit us online at www.cognizant.com or follow us on Twitter: Cognizant.

World Headquarters
500 Frank W. Burr Blvd.
Teaneck, NJ 07666 USA
Phone: +1 201 801 0233
Fax: +1 201 801 0243
Toll Free: +1 888 937 3277
Email: inquiry@cognizant.com

European Headquarters
Haymarket House
28-29 Haymarket
London SW1Y 4SP  UK
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7321 4888
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7321 4890
Email: infouk@cognizant.com

India Operations Headquarters
#5/535, Old Mahabalipuram Road
Okkiyam Pettai, Thoraipakkam
Chennai, 600 096 India
Phone: +91 (0) 44 4209 6000
Fax: +91 (0) 44 4209 6060
Email: inquiryindia@cognizant.com

  © Copyright 2011, Cognizant. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the express written permission from Cognizant. The information contained herein is 
subject to change without notice. All other trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

