•  Cognizant Case Study

UK Bank Hits Peak Performance  
with Cognizant TEMS

Achieving  flexibility  in  today’s  IT  environment  is 
essential  to  business  efficiency  and  competitive 
health.  The  demands  for  faster  time-to-market  
strain service delivery platforms to meet business 
goals, control costs and achieve high performance. 
When new strategies are adopted, a stable, reliable 
IT test environment is critical to success.

Our  work  with  one  of  the  UK’s  leading,  London-
based  banks  offers  a  case  in  point.  The  client 
leveraged  our 
ITIL-based  Test  Environment 
Management  Services  (TEMS)  process  framework 
and  the  customizable  controls  and  data  points 
needed  to  achieve  significant  improvements  in 
software  application  testing  projects.  The  result: 
new  efficiencies  in  an  increasingly  competitive 
banking and financial industry.

The Client: A Top-5 UK  
Banking Institution
Mergers  and  acquisitions  in  the  UK  banking 
industry  have  changed  the  market’s  competitive 
landscape  dramatically  in  recent  years.  One  of 
the  market’s  top-5  players  in  this  environment, 
a  London-based  bank  specializing  in  corporate 
and  retail  products  including  numerous  leading 
brands, has become well known in the High Street 

and mortgage market.  To  improve  its  competitive 
readiness  in  this  changing  environment,  the  bank 
hired us to implement a TEMS framework.

The Challenge: M&A Activities  
Stretching the IT Environment
Remaining  in  compliance  while  also  maintaining 
a  competitive  business  stance  has  become more 
challenging  in  the  UK  banking  industry  due  to 
recent M&A activities. Our client’s IT systems and 
application integration needed a more productive, 
predictable  way  of  delivering  tested  applications 
and products in a timely manner. 

Testing is critical to eliminating negative business 
impacts due  to  faulty applications. Our discovery 
showed  that  test  data  and  environment  issues 
were often increasing costs or reducing test cases 
to  accommodate  time  lost  in  problem  resolution. 
With  literally  hundreds  of  people  involved  in  the 
process,  the  bank  needed  a  single  point-of-con-
tact  to  manage  the  changes  and  create  a  stable 
environment.  The  new  framework  would  have  to 
accommodate  24/7  service  in  multiple  locations 
worldwide,  while  providing  visibility  and  perfor-
mance as improvements were deployed.

cognizant case study | april 2011

Environment build and delivery

Incident lifecycle management

Configuration management

Environment architecture and design

The Solution: Cognizant’s TEMS 
Framework
• 
Environment strategy
• 
• 
• 
• 
Our global delivery model ensured 24/7 support, 
as  we  effectively  transferred  the  work  to  the 
client’s internal teams and helped them accurately 
track progress for improved quality and decision-
making.  Through  our  single  point-of-contact,  key 
stages of the process were effectively controlled, 
helping the bank establish full functionality within 
six months.

The Benefits: Increased Clarity,  
Confidence and Cost Control
Our  TEMS  framework  is  now  helping  the  bank 
deliver  fully  tested  projects  efficiently  and  on 
time.  With  ongoing  ownership  and  maintenance 
as  a  benefit,  the  central  team  can  keep  environ-
ments  up  to  date  so  that  projects  are  delivered 
quicker.  Confidence  has  increased  as  a  result  of 
predictable start and end dates. Project visibility, 

including  key  performance  indicators,  has  estab-
lished  effective  budget  control  and 
incident 
management. The result is improved test environ-
ment availability, with an average uptime of 90% 
vs. 65% to 68% before the TEMS framework was 
implemented.

Client Benefits
• 

Single point-of-contact for issue 
resolution

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Design validation for  
“Best in Class” TEMS

Incident management and  
root cause analysis

Availability metrics through daily  
standardized reports

Intra-day SMS reporting for  
environmentimpacts

Reduced delays leading to greater  
test coverage

Efficient test windows for  
confidence in uptime

Start Today
At  a  time  when  companies  are  relentlessly  pushing  to  compete  better,  move  faster  and  fight  harder, 
Cognizant  is  the  global  technology  partner  with  a  single-minded  passion:  Dedicating  our  systems 
expertise, industry intelligence, and global resources to make your business stronger.

About Cognizant

Cognizant (Nasdaq: CTSH) is a leading provider of information technology, consulting,and business process outsourc-
ing services, dedicated to helping the world’s leading companies build stronger businesses. Headquartered in Teaneck,  
N.J., Cognizant combines a passion for client satisfaction, technology innovation, deep industry and business process 
expertise and a global, collaborative workforce that embodies the future of work. With over 50 delivery centers world-
wide and approximately 104,000 employees as of December 31, 2010, Cognizant is a member of the NASDAQ-100, the 
S&P 500, the Forbes Global 2000, and the Fortune 1000 and is ranked among the top performing and fastest growing 
companies in the world.

Visit us online at www.cognizant.com for more information.

World Headquarters
500 Frank W. Burr Blvd.
Teaneck, NJ 07666 USA
Phone: +1 201 801 0233
Fax: +1 201 801 0243
Toll Free: +1 888 937 3277
Email: inquiry@cognizant.com

European Headquarters
Haymarket House
28-29 Haymarket
London SW1Y 4SP  UK
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7321 4888
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7321 4890
Email: infouk@cognizant.com

India Operations Headquarters
#5/535, Old Mahabalipuram Road
Okkiyam Pettai, Thoraipakkam
Chennai, 600 096 India
Phone: +91 (0) 44 4209 6000
Fax: +91 (0) 44 4209 6060
Email: inquiryindia@cognizant.com

  © Copyright 2011, Cognizant. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the express written permission from Cognizant. The information contained herein is 
subject to change without notice. All other trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

